"I believe in a benevolent dictatorship, as long as I am the dictator." That is a quote from Richard Branson, CEO of the companies such as Virgin Airlines and Virgin Records. I confess, I am a dictator, of my own life. I have a schedule and I stick to it. But I can't lead others that way. People don't want to be led. They don't want to be controlled. They want to be inspired. And I want to inspire people to do what I want them to do. But I need a framework, so I took the leadership styles quiz on the Toastmasters website, and it identified me as being a democratic, coaching and affliative leader. I know, you're shocked! Why isn't dictator on that list?! That's because, a benevolent dictator is not a true dictatorship. It's actually democratic, coaching and affliative.

Toastmasters and guests, today I would like to take you on a vivid journey, through the day in a life of a benevolent dictator aka me. It all starts off in the morning, where while I am in my hometown, I am in charge of getting my younger brother up, dressed, fed and ready for school. At exactly 6:55 AM, I go into his room, and being a democratic benevolent dictator, I ask him, give him a choice: Would you like to wake up and have a nice hot bath now, or would you like to bathe with a MUGFUL OF ICE-COLD WATER, RIGHT NOW?! He usually picks the former. *DING* 1 point, benevolent dictator. Once he's out, me being the democratic benevolent dictator, I again ask him: would you like to eat breakfast now, comfortably, at the table, or would you like to shove a leftover-thepla down your throat after classes have begun? He usually picks, now. *DING* another point for benevolent dictator. Once he's on the table, I allow him, to share his ideas freely, and have a choice in his breakfast. I ask him: Would you like toast with jam, or toast with butter, and I let him ask me: "What else is there?" to which I probably respond, "PLAIN TOAST!" He chooses the dressed up toast. *DING* more points for the benevolent dictator.

Once he's finally dressed, fed and on his virtual classes, I change hats and put on my coach hat. Where I constantly encourage my brother to study well, while his classes are going on. "TAKE NOTES! WHY AREN'T YOU PAYING ATTENTION? FIX YOUR POSTURE!" Fortunately, he often can't hear me through his earphones. But I think we're all winners, since I didn't have to yell at his classmates! *DING* Yet another point to the benevolent dictator.

By the time work is over, I am exhausted! Do you know how hard it is to get people to do what you want them to do, without actually telling them what to do, for their own good? I am exhausted, but I can't give up now. That's not what good leaders do. Good leaders, they pull on their bootstraps, they soldier on, and they do what has to be done.
Come evening time, I am an affliative benevolent dictator. What does affliative mean? It means I create a harmonius environment, where people feel like a cohesive unit. I do this by playing games with my family in the evenings. And when my family is having fun, smiling, laughing and enjoying the games, that's when I remind my brother that he has to finish his homework. *DING* more points for the benevolent dictator.

So why wouldn't you want a benevolent dictator in your life? Wouldn't you want someone who's democratic, allow you to share your opinions, as long as those opinions are my own. Wouldn't you want a coach in your life, encouraging you, to reach your goals, as long as they are the goals that I would also like to be filled? And lastly, wouldn't you want an affliative leader in your life? One who creates a cohesive environment, one of harmony and of working together and then throwing a googly with a demand! I think you would all want a benevolent dictator in your life. So I look forward to your votes when I run for club president in the next term!
























Attributes of a successful leader:
    Effective Communicator: Communicates expectations, goals, and plans with others in a direct, concise, and thoughtful manner.
    Leads by Example: Expresses leadership through words and actions. It is not enough to simply tell others what to do. 
    Optimistic: Optimism is the ability to focus on the beneficial side of situations and expect positive outcomes. An optimistic attitude creates the opportunity to overcome obstacles and adversity.
    Open-Minded: Open-mindedness means considering new ideas and viewing situations without bias. Listening to others and incorporating their ideas places value on every member of a team. 
    Demonstrates Integrity: Demonstrates personal integrity by acknowledging and giving credit to others. Personal integrity refers to the ability to be honest and ethical. Integrity builds the trust you need for a strong team and increases the likelihood of accomplishing team goals.

THE PURPOSE OF LEADERSHIP:
Effective leaders empower others to accomplish personal goals and contribute to the successful completion of group objectives. Leaders are in a position to model behaviors for others to emulate. They provide guidance and feedback throughout the course of assigned projects and often help others improve their skills.

While a person may be both a leader and a manager, there is a difference in the skill sets needed for these roles. Within Toastmasters, managing deals mostly with planning, organizing, and facilitating specific tasks (such as the club treasurer managing the club’s budget). Leading deals with people, whether they are individuals or groups. Great leaders inspire others to follow them

Democratic

    This style relies on consensus decision-making.
    This leader is comfortable allowing others to occasionally take the lead.
    This leader motivates by providing opportunity for participation.
    This leader uses collaboration and communication to receive input from team members.
    This style is ineffective when time is limited or if team members do not have the knowledge or expertise to make quality contributions.
    This approach is most effective when the knowledge of the entire team is needed to solve a problem or find direction.

