Best Speaker winning Speech
---------------------------
We do not all think alike, and if we did, none thinks too much. And if you and I think exactly alike, one of us is unneccessary.

Dear toastmasters and guests, as professionals, sooner or later you're going to run into a conflict. So conflicts are inevitable. Anger, grudges, hurt and blame are optional. I have had to learn to change from making blame-and-shame statements to making I statements. And I am not promising that you will end all conflicts, I'm just saying that you can use confrontation to resolve the conflicts. And confrontation does not need to be unpleasant or hostile. CON- does not always mean against, as in pros and cons. For and against. Did you know it also meant with? Sure you did! Chili con carne - chili with meat. Via con dias - go with god, comic-con. I want you to know that confrontation is a loving caring act by an individual to resolve the difference at whatever cost and restore the relationship. Even if the misunderstanding is simple, it's good to confront early when just little small adjustments are needed.
The three rules:
    1. Confront early
    2. Confront often
    3. And most importantly, Confront respectfully

By confronting often, hopefully you can avoid a hostile environment that needs major surgery to repair the situation.

When you focus on confronting respectfully, it's like adjusting the lens of a camera. The understanding of where the other person is coming from, and when you have that understanding, you allow that person, to own their opinion. They do not own your opinion and by allowing both of you to own your opinions, you have a better understanding of where each is coming from. By keeping the end in mind, what you want to read, from this confrontation you will ask yourself several questions:
    1. What do you want the relationship to do?
    2. Do you want to resolve the conflict?
    3. Do you want to end the relationship?
    4. How hostile is the other party?

If you remember that confrontation is a loving caring act by an individual to resolve the difference. You will minimise putting people on the defensive and making them angry when you request a face-to-face meeting with them. When people confront me, when they need to set me straight, I make it a point to thank them and somebody said: "Wow! That's the first time I ever gave somebody a piece of my mind and they thanked me." I said: "You thought enough of me to let me know what was making you unhappy, and then I could make some adjustment." But people, a lot of times, would just cut you out of their life, you don't know why, because they do not know how to confront.

If you have a personal conflict, I recommend, that you roleplay with someone else. I have a lot of personal conflicts. And always when I roleplay with someone else on something that I needed to do, to talk with them about, I always took the other party's part! That I could hear what the other person is saying to me, when I'm telling them, I can know how it's going to affect me and I can react differently and change the words.

One of the things that I've learned is to learn to make I messages instead of you messages. You message is a blame-and-shame. For instance, "You never talk to me!" That's attacking the other person. But if you use the I message, "I really need to talk with you. I'm feeling very lonely, I miss you. I really feel distanced from you and I need to feel closer to you." That's when you learn I messages. Attack: "You spend too much money!" becomes "I'm really concerned about our finances." "You're always busy when I get home", I message: "I really want a big kiss hello because I missed you" or "I feel that I matter and I make a difference in your life. And when you ignore me when you get home, I don't feel that way." Much better, right?

Conflict leads to unity, it leads to change. Conflict is good when it is addressed, unfortunately we are not taught how to address it. One person, when I asked them what seems to be upsetting them: "Well if you don't know, I'm not telling you!" BANG and hung up the phone. That does not resolve anything and makes the other person only feel better momentarily. So learn the loving caring act of confronting early, confronting often and most importantly confronting respectfully.

Thank you, Toastmaster Mahesh.


--------
Feedback
--------
Reviewer Toastmaster Dheeraj Mittal
--------------------------
Much more capapble after hearing your speech
Liked that examples were three
3 topics with specific examples, liked a lot
Touched upon a specific scenario when I thanked someone
Informative speech

GE Toastmaster Aditya
---------------------
Created good impact, for daily lives
Wished that could have stitched examples in a bit more story instead of line by line.
Or maybe enacted with a small story.
Try to bring in this kind of speechwriting techniques.

Ah Counter Toastmaster Vinay
----------------------------
Bang on speech and only 1 filler word!
A round of applause for Toastmaster Shrey please!

Grammarian Toastmaster Grammarian
---------------------------------
Exellent use of language
Good usage of repetitions to drive home the points
blame and shame statements
con is not always a negative things
Fine tuning the lens of a camera
Empathise -> Could have used the word when understanding other's view






