The first step in solving a problem is recognizing there is one! Dear moderator, host and guests, I am Shrey Rupani and I am firmly against the motion on the topic: Covid19 has turned out to be a blessing.

Coronavirus, covid19, sars-cov-2, there are many names for this tragedy that has struck humanity. It is one of the deadliest crises the world has faced over the years. This invisible little speck has taken numerous innocent lives and there is no stop to it. Now we have reached a situation where our leaders themselves are saying that "God alone can save us: Health minister Sriramulu" and it's true!

While those before me have spoken about the primary effects of the pandemic, I'd like to touch upon the secondary effects of covid19. And the are arguably worse than the primary ones.

The might of our nation is in it's numbers, it's population. But a virus or a biological weapon is especially destructive to a country like India in the sense that it destroys the people while keeping structures intact.

Nifty declined 35% during the recent correction. Now the world's major economists are saying that it is not just a correction, or even a recession, but a full blown depression, like the great one. The coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent countrywide lockdown deeply impacted the Indian economy. It hit hard the incomes of all the indian industries selling non-essential items. 53% of companies have already experienced a significant decline in revenue and job losses in the second quarter. Unemployment rose from 6.7% on 15 March to 26% on 19 April. And this tale is going to continue till late 2021 or early 2022. We're in this for the long haul. And the worst affected of the lot are the urban and rural poor. We have regressed 5 years in terms of economy.

And our nation is brought to it's knees despite closing to relatively early! An act, if not for this unbeatbale situation, would be lauded as a masterstroke. The Indian economy was expected to lose over ₹32,000 crore (US$4.5 billion) every day during the first lockdown and many more followed it.

The UN warned us that “The COVID-19 pandemic is far more than a health crisis: it is affecting societies and econ­omies at their core. While the impact of the pandemic will vary from country to country, it will most likely increase poverty and inequalities at a global scale. Wealth inequality has increased manyfold in many countries. Jeff Bezos' net worth increased by 40 Billion USD, while unemployment is at an all time high.

We need each others’ support more than ever. However, what we are witnessing at most places is the complete opposite of empathy and solidarity. From trade wars to toilet paper wars, this outbreak is bringing out the worst of humanity. As those before me have mentioned, the lockdown, economic impacts and loss of social life have led many people down the dark paths of anxiety, insomnia, and depression.

This is the most insensitive statement I've heard today. Tell that to the family who lost their loved ones.
And even for those of us who have the resources or jobs to go through this, it has led to a waste of the entire year.

covid is something that will go down in the history books as one of the deadliest crises the world has faced over the years.

I'd like to conclude by saying that you'd have to be blind or incredibly selfish and insensitive to claim that it's a blessing. Tell that to the family who lost their loved ones. If we don't even acknowledge it as a problem, we'll never come close to solving it. And my opponents don't even want to acknowledge that it is a problem. 













