Under complete lockdown, less than a quarter of India's $2.8 trillion economic movement was functional.

During the lockdown, an estimated 14 crore (140 million) people lost employment while salaries were cut for many others.

More than 45% of households across the nation have reported an income drop as compared to the previous year.

The Indian economy was expected to lose over ₹32,000 crore (US$4.5 billion) every day during the first 21-days of complete lockdown, which was declared following the coronavirus outbreak.

Then we can talk about what our wonderful opponents are calling heroes. Our doctors, nurses, bell boys, suppliers, everyone! The medical industry has faced the worst of it. Not only are these people forced to work overtime, are underpaid (in this economy), while exposed to massive, and life threatening, risks. We may call them heroes, but we don't treat them as such, they are, essentially a shield that protects the rest of society. Why is their life of any less value than mine or yours? I'm sure anyone working on the frontline would agree with me. It's the worst feeling in the world to catch a slight cough from a coworker, or a delivery person, and then your parents are dead a week later.

India has a population of 1.35 billion people. If 1% of the population dies, that's 13,500,000 people dead. 13.5 million people dead would monkey wrench the economy no matter what. That more than doubles the number of annual deaths all at once.

The second bit is people keep talking about deaths. Deaths, deaths, deaths. Only one percent die! Just one percent! One is a small number! No big deal, right?

What about the people who survive?

For every one person who dies:

    19 more require hospitalization.
    18 of those will have permanent heart damage for the rest of their lives.
    10 will have permanent lung damage.
    3 will have strokes.
    2 will have neurological damage that leads to chronic weakness and loss of coordination.
    2 will have neurological damage that leads to loss of cognitive function.


So now all of a sudden, that “but it’s only 1% fatal!” becomes:

    13.5m people dead.
    256m hospitalized.
    243m people with permanent heart damage.
    135m people with permanent lung damage.
    40m people with strokes.
    27m people with muscle weakness.
    27m people with loss of cognitive function.



REBUTTALS:
-----------
SHEFALI:
--------
> Personal hygiene in the form of regular baths have gone down becuase people have less physical activity as well as less social interactions.

MITIKA:
-------
> Chinese apps were banned because of a political/border issue and had nothing to do with covid. As far as the quality of Indian developers is concerned, I am one of them, and while I'm grateful to you for putting us on this undeserved pedestal, I know the truth of the situation.

DHARAN:
-------
> Whatever has happened is for good. Sure! Covid is good because hygiene is akin to saying Hiroshima, Nagasaki were great because they helped create Godzilla.

> Ample opportunity time is afforded only to you and me, to other it has been a loss of their daily wage/rozi roti. And those that are being enterprising in this situation is out of need and not a pursue of passion.

> How has water improved when more people are dying in Hardwar?